src/kimi_cli/tools/file/read.md, before:

Read content from a file.

**Tips:**
- Make sure you follow the description of each tool parameter.
- A `<system>` tag will be given before the read file content.
- Content will be returned with a line number before each line like `cat -n` format.
- Use `line_offset` and `n_lines` parameters when you only need to read a part of the file.
- The maximum number of lines that can be read at once is ${MAX_LINES}.
- Any lines longer than ${MAX_LINE_LENGTH} characters will be truncated, ending with "...".
- The system will notify you when there is any limitation hit when reading the file.
- This tool is a tool that you typically want to use in parallel. Always read multiple files in one response when possible.
- This tool can only read text files. To list directories, you must use the Glob tool or `ls` command via the Shell tool. To read other file types, use appropriate commands via the Shell tool.
- If the file doesn't exist or path is invalid, an error will be returned.
- If you want to search for a certain content/pattern, prefer Grep tool over ReadFile.

Commit message:

feat(tool): support reading image and video files in ReadFile tool (#596)
Signed-off-by: Richard Chien <stdrc@outlook.com>

src/kimi_cli/tools/file/read.md, after:

Read content from a file.

**Tips:**
- Make sure you follow the description of each tool parameter.
- A `<system>` tag will be given before the read file content.
- The system will notify you when there is anything wrong when reading the file.
- This tool is a tool that you typically want to use in parallel. Always read multiple files in one response when possible.
- This tool can only read text, image and video files. To list directories, you must use the Glob tool or `ls` command via the Shell tool. To read other file types, use appropriate commands via the Shell tool.
- If the file doesn't exist or path is invalid, an error will be returned.
- If you want to search for a certain content/pattern, prefer Grep tool over ReadFile.
- For text files:
  - Content will be returned with a line number before each line like `cat -n` format.
  - Use `line_offset` and `n_lines` parameters when you only need to read a part of the file.
  - The maximum number of lines that can be read at once is ${MAX_LINES}.
  - Any lines longer than ${MAX_LINE_LENGTH} characters will be truncated, ending with "...".
- For image and video files:
  - Content will be returned as it is so that you can see the media. If you do not support image/video input, try other tools to process media files.
  - The maximum size that can be read is ${MAX_MEDIA_BYTES} bytes. An error will be returned if the file is larger than this limit.
